---
title: 一种用于三维流体-膜相互作用的隐式浸入边界方法
categories: []
tags: []
katex: true
comments: false
license: true
cc_license: false
date: '2023-02-27 09:57'
abbrlink: 3291
---
<div id='empty'></div>
<div id='empty'></div>
<!--more-->


## 摘要
我们提出了一种隐式浸没边界法 for the incompressible Navier–Stokes equations capable of handling three-dimensional membrane–fluid flow interactions. 我们的目的是通过使用JFNK(Jacobian-free Newton–Krylov)方法隐式推进弹性薄膜的位置大幅增加时间步长。

最引人注目的是此方法具有接近牛顿方法的非线性收敛率，但不用构造和存储真实的Jacobi矩阵。广义最小残差法(Generalized Minimal Residual method, GMRES)，是Krylov子空间迭代法(Krylov-subspace iterative method)的一种，用于求解每一次牛顿迭代的下降方向。每次GMRES迭代仅需使用一次Jacobi矩阵，用于计算矩阵向量的乘积，我们可以避免显式地构造和存储Jacobi矩阵。一旦我们获取了边界的位移，就能通过有限元方法算出薄膜上离散节点的弹性力。然后，我们用浸没边界发计算水动力效应和流体-结构相互作用效应，如膜变形。

本方法通过了一些例子的验证，将震荡薄膜放置在静止的流体中，剪切流中的囊膜，受到拉伸力而大变形红细胞。

## 引言

This paper considers an implicit 浸没边界法 for simulating viscous incompressible flows with immersed elastic membranes. 浸没边界法 was originally developed by Peskin [36] to study the fluid dynamics of blood flow in the human heart. Peskin’s 浸没边界法 has proven to be a very useful method for modeling fluid–structure interaction involving large geometry variations. The original method has been developed further and applied to many biological problems including platelet aggregation [14,15,52], the deformation of red blood cells in a shear flow [11], the swimming of bacterial organisms and others [10,13]. More details on 浸没边界法 can be found in [37] and the references therein.

Typically, in the framework of the 浸没边界法, the elastic boundary is treated as a collection of elastic fibers. Alternatively, the elastic boundary is also modeled as an elastic membrane [11] or a thin shell [17]. These models are used to compute the forces acting at the discrete nodes representing the immersed boundary. 对于大多数生物组织，它们的薄膜的刚性很强，即使是轻微变形也会产生较大的弹性力，这个力比流体内部的相互作用力大好几个数量级，这导致我们需要严格限制时间步长才能使浸没边界法的求解维持稳定。Much effort has been made to analyze the stiffness of 浸没边界法 and remove this restriction [18,22,33,47,48]. Several semi-implicit and implicit methods have been developed to 消除这个问题 [12,21,31,35,51]. 隐式方法和显式方法的比较 in the context of moving immersed boundaries have been presented in [35,51]. In the context of immersed interface methods (IIM) a quasi-Newton method has been proposed [27–29] to improve time stability. However, for very stiff problems, small time steps are still required. 为了缓解这个问题，有人提出了一种无条件稳定的数值格式 [34]. In this scheme, an approximate Newton solver is employed to advance the location of the boundary. The Newton method, however, requires a Jacobian matrix which is extremely expensive to compute explicitly for every time step. To avoid forming the Jacobian matrix explicitly, an iterative matrix-free method has been introduced in the context of the immersed continuum method [53]. Another strategy for solving the implicit IB equations involves deriving Schur complement equations by eliminating one or more of the unknown variables [33,35]. Several methods have been employed to solve the [[Schur complement equations]] such as fixed point methods, projection methods and Krylov-subspace methods.
Recently, 一种高效的半隐式浸没边界法 with arclength–tangent angle formulation has been proposed for twodimensional Navier–Stokes equations [21]. In this formulation, an unconditionally stable semi-implicit discretization is derived and the small scale decomposition technique [20] is applied to the discretization. This semi-implicit scheme has much better stability property than the explicit scheme and therefore offers a substantial computational cost saving. We note that the stability of this scheme is weaker than the unconditionally stable scheme proposed in [34] because this scheme treats only the leading order term implicitly [21].

In the present paper, an implicit immersed boundary method is presented with vastly improved time step by using the Jacobian-free Newton–Krylov method (JFNK) [24] to advance the location of the elastic membrane implicitly. This matrixfree approach has many advantages. The most attractive is Newton-like nonlinear convergence without the cost of forming and storing the true Jacobian. In this Jacobian-free method, the search direction required for each Newton iteration is updated using the Generalized Minimal Residual method (GMRES) [44], which is a widely used Krylov-subspace iterative method. Each GMRES iteration only requires the action of the Jacobian in the form of matrix–vector products and therefore avoids the need of forming and storing the Jacobian matrix explicitly. The JFNK method has become established in computational fluid dynamics (CFD) to deal with the nonlinear convection term [3,6,16,25]. In this paper, we employ the JFNK method to advance the membrane location implicitly while still approximating the convection term explicitly. Once the location of the boundary is obtained, the elastic forces acting at the discrete nodes of the membrane are computed. In the present work, an elastic membrane model with bending stiffness proposed in [38,42] is employed. In our numerical studies, the immersed boundary method provides the means of calculating the hydrodynamics and fluid–structure interaction effects such as membrane deformation, and the finite element method with membrane model is used to calculate the elastic forces on the membrane.
The remainder of this paper is organized as follow. In Section 2, we describe the governing equations, the immersed boundary algorithm, the discrete model of capsule membranes and the method for advancing the membrane evolution in time. We then present a detailed implementation of the present method in Section 3. In Section 4, some numerical examples are presented and finally, some conclusions are given in Section 5.


4.4. 压力驱动流中的血红细胞

Using the shear modulus obtained from the previous example, we perform a simulation of the 压力驱动流 involving 32 red blood cells (RBCs) immersed in the fluid. The purpose of this simulation is to 讨论当前隐式浸没边界方法的性能. Specifically, we compare the CPU time that is required for the present implicit scheme and the second-order Runge–Kutta scheme used in [37] to obtain a solution at a given time. In the simulation, the RBCs are initially placed in a box of size $24\mu m\times48\mu m\times12\mu m$，如图15所示。The computational domain is discretized with 64 ? 128 ? 32 uniform grid. The fluid viscosity and density are the same as those in the previous example.
The pressure drop is maintained at 10 cm of water column. Each red blood cell is discretized with 10,242 nodes and 5120 quadratic triangular elements. We measure the computational times required for each scheme to obtain the solution at t = 0.05 s with the in-plane shear modulus of 10 lN/m. We used Dt ¼ 4:5 ? 10?4for our implicit scheme. We can actually choose larger time step while still maintain the stability, but this choice of Dt is due to the accuracy considerations. The maximum time step that is required for the second-order Runge–Kutta scheme to maintain the stability is Dt ¼ 1:875 ? 10?6. All the simulations are performed on a Dual-core AMD Opteron 2 GHz Processor. The positions of the RBCs at t ¼ 0:05 s are shown in 图 15(b), applicable for the two different time schemes. We consider periodic boundary conditions for the cells so that the cells which exit at one end of the channel will enter at the other end. 隐格式耗费22分钟，比显格式快43倍。 在剪切模量较大的情况下，隐格式的优势会更大。

## 5. 结论
Conclusions In this paper, 我们提出了一种隐式浸没边界法 for the incompressible Navier–Stokes equations capable of handling 三维流体和薄膜的流固耦合作用。 The present study was undertaken with the objective of eliminating time step restrictions by using the Jacobian-free Newton–Krylov method (JFNK) to advance the location of the elastic membrane implicitly.
We have shown the capability of the present technique by applying it to the viscous flow problems involving elastic membranes with bending stiffness in three-dimensional domains. Numerical simulations have been performed for the 粘性流体中的震荡薄膜 to illustrate that the method can maintain stability under relatively large time steps. Simulations have also been performed to reproduce some results for the 简单剪切流中的膜囊 as a validation test for our method. It is found that our numerical results are in good agreement with those reported in literature. The present method was also used to simulate the 光学镊子直接拉伸人红细胞产生的大变形。 We have compared the in-plane shear modulus of the normal human red blood cell with that determined by experimental measurements. The range of 剪切模量 obtained by the present method compares well to that reported previously in the literature. With the obtained shear modulus, the present implicit method has been used to perform simulations of 压力驱动流中的红细胞 to further demonstrate the 方法的性能。
The present algorithm does not include any preconditioned techniques with the GMRES solver. We expect to improve the time step further without increasing the number of GMRES iterations by applying appropriate preconditioners. This will be the subject of future work. (译者注：适用于JFNK方法的预处理技术很少)

