---
title: IBFE相关论文
categories: [笔记]
tags: []
katex: true
comments: false
license: true
cc_license: false
abbrlink: 59136
date: 2023-02-22 00:00:00
---
IBFE相关论文


- [ ] 1. The immersed boundary method a finite element approach
- [ ] 2. A finite element approach for the immersed boundary method
- [ ] 3. Stability results for the finite element approach to the immersed boundary method
- [ ] 4. Stability results and algorithmic strategies for the finite element approach to the immersed boundary method
- [ ] 5. THE FINITE ELEMENT IMMERSED BOUNDARY METHOD
- [ ] 6. On the CFL condition for the finite element immersed boundary method
- [x] 7. Numerical stability of the finite element immersed boundary method
- [ ] 8. On the stability of the finite element immersed boundary method
- [ ] 9. On the hyper-elastic formulation of the immersed boundary method
- [x] 10. Finite element approach to immersed boundary method with different fluid and solid densities
- [ ] 11. Variational implementation of immersed finite element methods
- [ ] 12. A Fully Coupled Immersed Finite Element Method for Fluid Structure Interaction via the Deal.II Library
- [x] 13. Benchmarking the Immersed Finite Element Method for Fluid-Structure Interaction Problems
- [ ] 14. Advances in the Mathematical Theory of the Finite Element Immersed Boundary Method
- [ ] 15. DISCRETE MODELS FOR FLUID-STRUCTURE INTERACTIONS: THE FINITE ELEMENT IMMERSED BOUNDARY METHOD
- [ ] 16. A distributed Lagrange formulation of the Finite Element Immersed Boundary Method for fluids interacting with compressible solids
- [ ] 17. A fictitious domain approach with Lagrange multiplier for fluid-structure interactions
- [x]  18. The finite element immersed boundary method with distributed Lagrange multiplier